[Music]
scientists finally discovered the truth
about Easter Island for many decades
people's minds have been occupied with
the mystery of Easter Island a remote
piece of volcanic soil far away in the
Pacific Ocean
but our planet hosts thousands of such
Lonely Island's what is so particular
about this one the mystery is concealed
not on the island itself but the giant
stone statues covering it who created
the world-famous huge stone heads did
they serve any specific purpose where
did their creators arrive from and where
did they disappear well it seems the
answer is finally just around the corner
watch this video and satisfy your
curiosity learning all the truths about
Easter Island remember to give us thumbs
up we work to make your life brighter
[Music]
what do we know about the island itself
rapanui which is the name given to
Easter Island by its first inhabitants
is the territory of Chile and is
situated in the southern pacific ocean
and it is so so far that you can easily
consider it one of the most distant
places on the world's map it lies 1,200
miles away from Pitcairn which is its
closest neighbor Chile itself is 2,300
miles away to the west the only
transport that can take you there is a
plane if you want to get to this
destination point you will need to spend
five hours on board flying from Santiago
Chile to Easter Island the area of the
island is just 63 square miles and such
let's admit a tiny territory is home to
887 huge stone statues
[Music]
here are some interesting facts you
might not know about them
the statues carry the name boy
they started to be carved at some point
between the 13th and 15th centuries
rapanui statues are easily recognized
thanks to the peculiar faces they have
long noses wide Chin's rectangular ears
heavy brows and deeply set eyes
it is quite curious that the nostrils
curl in the way fishhooks do firstly
people thought that the statues were
made up only by their heads but
surprisingly it turned out that there
are full bodies that are attached to
that
it was discovered during excavations in
May 2012 the bodies were just hidden
underground
in fact the statues are very tall the
biggest one is 33 feet tall and weighs
90 us tonnes but that's not the record
once that you unearthed on the island
was incomplete but according to
scientific calculations it had to reach
70 feet in height and weigh about 297 US
tonnes still the heads of the statues
visible from the first site make up 3/8
of each statue size as for the arms they
were carved against the bodies resting
in different positions
[Music]
most statues 834 out of 887 were carved
from the material called tough which is
in fact compressed volcanic ash
curiously all the statues except one
group face inland it means their backs
are turned to the ocean perhaps the
reason for that was the belief that the
statues were the protectors of the
villagers that's why they overlooked the
settlement the only statues not fitting
into this pattern can be found at a
looook Evy a sacred place for the people
of Rapa Nui there is a unique statue on
the island it is the only statue which
was found in a kneeling position
it's name is to Kotori scientists
believe that the statue depicts an
ancient singer his position resembles
the one people took at the festival of
rui the head of the statue is lifted
quite high and you can even notice a
beard to Kotori looks much more
human-like than the other statues it's
smaller size and the unusual material
the statue is made of red Puna puah
stone are the things that make it stand
out among the rest all these facts are
quite intriguing right keep watching
there are several mysteries to unravel
[Music]
people keep wondering how the statues of
such huge weight have been distributed
all around the island
what is more when Europeans first
arrived at the island in 1722 they found
a small local population just between
one and a half and three thousand people
how could it correlate with the hundreds
of statues on the island surely there
had been numerous theories about how the
statues had been moved one of the most
popular ones among the lovers of
mysteries was the belief that the
statues have been created and moved by
aliens but even if you like this theory
we are sorry to debunk it the stone the
statues were built from originates from
the island itself the birthplace of most
of the material was an extinct volcano
situated in the northeast of Easter
Island and not another planet the
mystery surrounding the way Rapa Nui
people could move the statues challenged
the researchers not letting them back
off in the 80s some of them decided to
recreate a statue and check the
possibility of moving it around they
were to use only the tools that could be
available for the Aborigines it seemed
impossible to do but a bit later an
American archaeologist succeeded in
moving a ten US ton copy several decades
passed and another group of American
scientists proved that the Islanders
could tie ropes and circling the huge
statues and move them with a walking
motion they backed up their theory with
practice moving a full-sized replica for
three hundred and thirty feet using this
method
actually their idea can explain why
Rapanui folklore states that the statues
were walking with the help of magic it
explains the way the statues were
transported to their designated places
but what about the remaining question
how could a handful of inhabitants
create such magnificent and numerous
monuments a new study has been conducted
recently to specify the maximum number
of the inhabitants in the heyday of the
islands civilization the results arrived
and they were quite unexpected it turned
out that as many as seventeen and a half
thousand people could comfortably live
on the island at least 19 percent of the
land could be covered with the fields of
sweet potatoes that used to be the main
source of food for the population what
is more the Islanders consumed quite a
lot of seafood and fish so knowing these
numbers you can see that there were
enough people to create the stone
masterpieces but what happened to them
why did they disappear
at first it was believed that the reason
for such a decrease of the population
was an eco side the natives cut out
large forests and palm trees making
spare room for moving the statues around
as well as agriculture they thought the
trees were going to grow back fast
enough it was a misleading concept the
deterioration of the environment
resulted in hunger and this in turn led
to Wars and cannibalism nowadays however
such a theory has been proven wrong
first of all Rapa Nui inhabitants seem
to be very talented agricultural
engineers they deliberately fertilized
the fields with the volcanic rock in
fact another research has shown that
people had been living on the island for
many centuries and the population only
started to decrease when Europeans began
visiting so a much more realistic
explanation is also very tragic South
American raids in the pursuit of slaves
frequented the island throughout the
nineteenth century half of the
Aborigines were taken away
what is more European traders brought to
the island new diseases which the locals
hadn't been protected from and
introduced in forced migration it led to
the fatal decline of the nation that
presented the world with such a miracle
as the mystery of Easter Island
have you heard these facts before share
your opinion and ideas in the comments
below hit the like button below the
video and click subscribe to join us on
the bright side
[Music]
you